
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# tabler

<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- badges: end -->

The immediate results of statistical analyses generated by R are rarely
in a form that is ideal for the intended audience’s use and consumption.
The `tabler` package contains functions (and accompanying strategies) we
can use to make our tabular results ready for presentation and/or
dissemination.

Tables are one of the most popular ways to present information to our
audience. When our goal is to show our readers precise numerical
summaries of our data, the exact values that resulted from our analysis
are important.

However, the specific details that we may want to present from table to
table, or the way in which we want to present them, can vary widely. For
example, an initial table of descriptive information about our
participants may or may not be stratified by subgroups of interest.
Additionally, our tables may include variables of different types (i.e.,
numerical or categorical), and for any given type, they may include
various different kinds of numerical summaries. Further, there are
numerous types of inferential models that result in numerical summaries
that we may want to present in a table. For these reasons, it is
difficult to create a good one-size-fits-all approach to automating the
process of making results ready for presentation and dissemination.

Having said that, we walk through some basic strategies for automating
the processes of putting results into presentation-ready summary tables
below with the help of the `tabler` package. And we attempt to do so in
a way that makes updating them (which happens A LOT) as painless as
possible.

## Installation

You can install the development version of `tabler` like so:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("brad-cannell/tabler")
```
